Apply now to the MISM program
Review the information below to successfully submit your MISM application

Home    Admissions   Information Systems Management (MISM)
Information Systems Management Master's Degree Application Process
The Master of Information Systems Management program has four specialized academic pathways emphasizing multidisciplinary thinking, teamwork, and leadership through experiential learning and co-curricular programming. Some pathways have different application requirements, so it is important for you to review the information below regarding the application deadline and requirements before you begin your online application.

If you’re looking for Information Systems Management program overview, including information regarding curriculum, experiential learning, scholarships and financial aid, or career outcomes, please visit the main page.

Information Systems Management

Before you begin your online application, please carefully review the information below.

Our Master of Information Systems Management graduate degree is a STEM-designated degree program. Students enrolled in the program are eligible for 24-month OPT STEM extension. For more information, visit the Office of International Education’s website.

APPLICATION DEADLINES
We will continue to accept applications after the published deadlines if space remains in the incoming class. Please contact the Office of Admissions if you are interested in submitting an application after the published deadlines. 

We offered two application deadlines for the August 2025 start date for our full-time master’s programs. Refer to the information below for related details.

Priority Deadline: December 2, 2024
Submit your application form and required supporting materials by the priority deadline to receive a decision by the end of January. The required supporting materials are two (2) recommendations, official transcript/evaluation report for your bachelor's degree, and official test scores (if applicable). Review the application checklist below for more details.

Applicants who are currently pursuing their bachelor’s degree are encouraged to apply by the regular deadline (see below) so your fall (or seventh) semester grades are included on your official transcript/evaluation report.

Regular Deadline: January 10, 2025
The regular deadline is best for applicants who have not yet completed their bachelor’s degree, or for those who do not need an earlier decision from us. Applicants who apply by the regular deadline can expect to receive a decision by the end of March.

The required supporting materials required to make your application file “complete” can arrive after you submit your application and after the regular deadline. The required supporting materials are two (2) recommendations, official transcript/evaluation report for your bachelor's degree, and official test scores (if applicable). Review the application checklist below for more details.

How to Submit Your Application
Regardless of your chosen deadline, you will complete these steps to submit your application:

Answer required questions within the online application form
Upload required essay and résumé
Register each recommender's name and email address
Enter test date and registration number for any required standardized test(s)
Applications are reviewed after all required materials have been received.

 

QUESTIONS? CONTACT YOUR ADMISSIONS REPRESENTATIVE
Email Senior Associate Director of Admissions, David Danenberg - davidbd@andrew.cmu.edu

Schedule a Visit
Schedule a visit to our campus to learn more about CMU and interact with current MISM students and faculty members.
Schedule a Visit
Attend an Online Info Session
Register to attend an upcoming live webinar, or view any of our previously recorded webinars at your convenience.
Register or Watch On-Demand
Attend Fall Visitation
Register for our Fall Visitation, where you can meet fellow applicants, current students, and faculty members.
Learn more and Register
Request Information
Request email updates or additional information on the MISM program.
Request Information
Connect with a Current Student
Find out how you can connect with a current MISM student via email to learn more about the program.
Connect with a current MISM student now
Events Near You
Find out about Heinz College events near your hometown, including visits from reps from our Office of Admissions.
Find an event near you
Application Checklist

Before you begin the online application process, please carefully review the list of application requirements and admission criteria for the Master of Information Systems Management graduate degree program.

The Admissions Committee takes a holistic approach to reviewing applications, and we will complete the review of your application after we have received all of your application materials.

Online Application Form
Transcripts
GRE / GMAT Scores
English Language Proficiency Exam Results (TOEFL, IELTS or Duolingo)
Recommendations
Professional Résumé
Required Essay
Optional Essay
Video Interview (optional, but strongly recommended)
Verification Requirement for Enrolling Students (applicable only upon admission)
Pathways with Additional Application Requirements
Information Systems Management 12-Month Pathway
At least three years of work experience is required to be accepted into the 12-Month Pathway.

At least three years of work experience is required to be accepted into the 12-Month Pathway.

Apply Now
Business Intelligence and Data Analytics (BIDA) Pathway
The MISM-BIDA Pathway requires that you have a background in these three required coursework areas: programming, database, and statistics.

MISM-BIDA requires that you have a background in these three required coursework areas: programming, database, and statistics. See the "Prerequisite Coursework Information" section below for detailed information.

Apply Now
Exchange Students
Click here for more information on the Exchange Program application requirements.

Click here for more information on the Exchange Program application requirements.

Learn More
Applying to an Accelerated Master's Program as an Undergraduate Student

Allegheny College Undergraduates
Bethany College Undergraduates
Carnegie Mellon University Undergraduates
Chatham University Undergraduates
Singapore Management University
Prerequisite Coursework Information

You may want to consider enrolling in prerequisite coursework prior to applying for admission.

If you have not previously completed a college-level class in object-oriented programming (OOP), we encourage you to enroll in a class before you apply for admission in order to strengthen your profile. Completing the OOP course (with a grade of B or higher) is a great way to show the Admissions Committee that you are proactively preparing for the Information Systems Management program and fulfilling the prerequisites for enrollment. Please see below for more details regarding the OOP prerequisite in addition to a list of pre-approved OOP classes.

If you have not previously completed a college-level class in probability/statistics, you may want to enroll in a course before or during the admission process. Enrolling in a probability/ statistics class before you apply for admission in order to strengthen your profile. Completing the probability/ statistics class course (with a grade of B or higher) is a great way to show the Admissions Committee that you are proactively preparing for graduate school and fulfilling the prerequisites for enrollment.  Please see below for more details regarding the  probability/ statistics prerequisite in addition to a pre-approved probability/ statistics class.

If you are applying specifically to the Business Intelligence and Data Analytics pathway and you have not previously completed college-level database class, we encourage you to enroll in a database class before you apply for admission in order to strengthen your profile. Completing the database course (with a grade of B or higher) is a great way to show the Admissions Committee that you are proactively preparing for graduate school and fulfilling the prerequisites for enrollment. Please see below for more details regarding the database prerequisite in addition to a list of pre-approved database classes.

Heinz College does not prefer any specific institution at which you should complete your prerequisite coursework. Courses offered through Coursera or other MOOC platforms do not meet the prerequisite coursework requirements for admission to Heinz College.

Our faculty and staff are here to help you review courses you are considering. If you have any questions regarding admission and enrollment prerequisites, please contact the Office of Admissions via email at hnzadmit@andrew.cmu.edu, or give us a call at 412-268-2164.

Object-Oriented Programming
Pre-Approved Java Programming Courses
Probability/Statistics
Database
Student raising hand to ask a question
Frequently Asked Questions
Didn't find what you were looking for on this page? Check out our Admissions Frequently Asked Questions page for additional information on any of the topics or processes outlined above.
Application for Admission
Thank you for your interest in Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College of Information Systems and Public Policy.

From this page, First-time users can create your account and start an application.

Returning users can login to continue work on an application or to check the status page for a submitted application.

If you aren't ready to apply this year, but want more information: Join our email list.

NOTE: This online application works best on a laptop or desktop computer using an updated version of Chrome, Firefox or Safari. It is not designed to work on a mobile phone.
 
Returning users:
Log in to continue an application.	
First-time users:
Create an account to start a new application.
FAQs

Before you begin the online application process, please carefully review the list of application requirements and admission criteria for the Master of Information Systems Management graduate degree program.

The Admissions Committee takes a holistic approach to reviewing applications, and we will complete the review of your application after we have received all of your application materials.

Online Application Form
You must submit a completed application form via our online application system to be considered for admission to Heinz College. Heinz College does not charge an application fee.

Apply Online Now

Transcripts
All applicants who have completed (or will complete) their Bachelor’s degree in the United States must have an official transcript of their undergraduate studies submitted directly to Carnegie Mellon University’s Heinz College by their undergraduate university.

All applicants who have completed (or will complete) their Bachelor’s degree outside the United States must have a course-by-course transcript evaluation report submitted directly to Carnegie Mellon University’s Heinz College via an approved transcript evaluation service.

All applicants must earn a Bachelor's degree from a regionally-accredited institution (or its equivalent) prior to the date they would begin their studies at Heinz College. If you have not completed your Bachelor's degree by the time you submit your application for admission to Heinz College, you may be admitted on the condition that you submit your final, official transcript, including your date of graduation, prior to the start of your first semester at Heinz College. 

How to submit your official transcript or course-by-course evaluation report

GRE / GMAT Scores
We are committed to reducing barriers and increasing access for all applicants. We assess applicants holistically and take into consideration many factors, including quantitative background and experience.

Applicants are REQUIRED to submit GRE/GMAT scores or applicants can qualify for a waiver of the GRE/GMAT requirement by submitting one (1) or more of the following:


Evidence of Prior Quantitative Coursework- At a minimum, applicants can demonstrate their preparedness by having earned an “A” or higher in a college-level, credit-bearing, Calculus class and Statistics class. Advanced Placement (AP) or International Baccalaureate (IB) Calculus and Statistics will satisfy this requirement if the course(s) appears on the undergraduate transcript as college credit.  Only classes listed on the official undergraduate transcript or other official transcript(s) will be considered.
Undergraduate transcript from Carnegie Mellon University– Applicants who have completed (or will complete) their undergraduate degree at Carnegie Mellon University are eligible for a waiver of the GRE/GMAT requirement.
The admissions committee reserves the right to require GRE/GMAT scores be submitted (prior to completing their review of the application) if the applicant’s coursework does not meet the minimum standard for enrollment. 

Prospective Information Systems Management and Business Intelligence and Data Analytics pathway students are NOT ELIGIBLE for waiver of the GRE/ GMAT requirement based on their work experience. 

If you are going to submit scores, click here for detailed information on submitting your standardized test scores.

English Language Proficiency Exam Results (TOEFL, IELTS or Duolingo)
If your native language (mother tongue) is not English, you are required to submit an official score report from the TOEFL, IELTS, or the Duolingo English Test. The only exceptions are for:

students who have worked or studied for five or more years in Australia, Botswana, Canada, Eswatini (formerly Swaziland), Ghana, Ireland, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Namibia, New Zealand, Nigeria, Singapore, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, United Kingdom, United States, and/or Zambia.
students who studied for four years of their undergrad education in the United States and earned their bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited US school (students are encouraged to provide unofficial copies of the English Language Proficiency exam they used when they applied to their undergraduate institution as part of their application to Heinz College).
Students who are required to submit test scores must have scores reported directly to Heinz College by the testing service. When required, we strongly recommend that you take the exam at least one month prior to the application deadline. 

How to submit English proficiency exam results

Recommendations
You are required to have two (2) recommendation forms submitted on your behalf. Recommendations should be provided by employers, supervisors, professors, or others who are able to comment on your professional and educational goals and potential. At least one (1) of your recommenders should know you in a professional setting (full-time employment, internship, part-time employment, research, non-academic extracurricular activity, etc.). You may opt to have up to three (3) recommendations submitted in support of your application.

Please note: recommendations from friends, family members or acquaintances, and other sources not able to evaluate applicants on an academic or professional basis, will not be accepted.

Letters of recommendation must be written in or translated into English. Your recommendations must be submitted electronically through the online application system by your recommenders. We do not accept recommendations submitted on paper.

How to submit your recommendations

Professional Résumé
You are required to upload your résumé to the application system. Please submit a one- or two-page summary of your education skills, accomplishments, employment experiences, and volunteer experiences. The résumé MUST be current and include all part-time and full-time work experience, the dates of when the employment began and ended, and a brief description of your responsibilities under the title of the position. Click here for an example of a résumé.

Please consider using the "Optional Essay" to address the reason for any "gap" in your résumé, if applicable.

Your résumé should contain only true information and your own, original content. If you include a quote or text written by any other person or published in any printed or online format, you must surround the copied text in quotation marks (") and indicate the original source of the text. Information reported on your résumé is subject to verification. The Heinz College Office of Admissions utilizes several methods to identify plagiarized and falsified content in uploaded documents. Submission of false or plagiarized material as part of the application for admission may result in automatic denial of admission to any degree program.

Required Essay
You are required to upload the required essay to the application system.

Your essay should address the following 3 questions. We recommend that your total essay length should be 700 words minimum (up to 1100 words suggested maximum). Please give each section of your essay the appropriate heading for each question.

Career Goals: What are your career goals after completing graduate school? (Recommended response length: 150-300 words)
Prior Experience: How have your prior experiences (professional, academic, and/or personal) prepared you for graduate study and informed your career goals? (Recommended response length: 400-500 words)
Why Heinz College: How will attending this degree program at Heinz College help you achieve your career goals? (Recommended response length: 150-300 words)
Your essay should contain only true information and your own, original content. You should not use artificial intelligence (AI), such as ChatGPT, to write any portion of your essay. If you include a quote or text written by any other person or published in any printed or online format, you must surround the copied text in quotation marks (") and indicate the original source of the text. Information reported on your résumé is subject to verification. The Heinz College Office of Admissions utilizes several methods to identify plagiarized, AI-generated, and falsified content in uploaded documents. Submission of false, plagiarized or AI-generated material as part of the application for admission may result in automatic denial of admission to any degree program.

Optional Essay
You may choose to submit an essay in which you comment on any item(s) in your application that you consider worthy of further explanation. We are mostly interested in having you address any gaps in your professional experience, or anything you would consider a weakness that could have an impact on your admission status. Please limit optional essays to no more than 250 words.

Your essay should contain only true information and your own, original content. You should not use artificial intelligence (AI), such as ChatGPT, to write any portion of your essay. If you include a quote or text written by any other person or published in any printed or online format, you must surround the copied text in quotation marks (") and indicate the original source of the text. Information reported on your résumé is subject to verification. The Heinz College Office of Admissions utilizes several methods to identify plagiarized, AI-generated, and falsified content in uploaded documents. Submission of false, plagiarized or AI-generated material as part of the application for admission may result in automatic denial of admission to any degree program.

Video Interview (optional, but strongly recommended)
The completion of a short video interview is extremely important for applicants to the MISM program, especially individuals unable to visit campus prior to the application deadline or those who are non-native English speakers. More than 95% of admitted Information Systems Management applicants completed a video assessment.

You will receive an email invitation to complete the video interview after you submit your online application and after we receive your official undergraduate transcript (or course-by-course evaluation report).

How and when to complete the video interview

Verification Requirement for Enrolling Students (applicable only upon admission)
Heinz College is committed to ensuring the integrity of our admissions process and the reputation of our educational programs. We also want to protect and enhance the value of the degrees that we confer. As an enrolling student, you will be required to successfully complete a verification process of your admission application materials. The verification process will be completed by an outside, independent contractor hired by Heinz College and Carnegie Mellon University.

The purpose of this background check is to protect all stakeholders of the program (students, faculty, staff, and alumni) from those who would falsify their backgrounds to gain an unfair advantage in the admissions process. We believe that this verification will support our efforts to ensure integrity throughout the program. Upon admission, you will receive more details about this process from the Office of Admissions.